>> Will Sentance: When we run a function,
>> Will Sentance: We call that function,
we invoke that function.
We know that when we finish running
that function, say, multiply by 2,
we know where to go back to.
I can visually see on the page, I guess
I could back out to where I was before.
JavaScript needs to keep track of that.
In fact, it keeps track of every
single function that we call.
And it does so using a way of storing
data in a computer known as a stack.
Which is a useful way of organizing
data just like a stack of plates.
The only thing it cares about at
any given moment is the top plate.
I can't grab random plates from a stack of
plates, I can only take the top one off.
Well, that's exactly what
a call stack feels like.
The only thing it cares about
is what's on it's top right now.
And when we run a function like multiply
by two's, we do [SOUND] in this line,
we're gonna add it to the top of the stack
of calls, with the input, there it is.
Every time we run a function,
we add it to the stack of calls.
Every time it finishes running,
what keyword, David,
tells me finish running a function
>> David: Return?
>> Will Sentance: Return, we remove it.
Anyone know the posh word, do we know
the password for adding to a stack?
>> David: Push and pop.
>> Will Sentance: Push, push to
a stack and pop to remove it, exactly,
we pop it off.
Unfortunately this is not the whiteboard
to be rapidly popping stuff of stacks,
but let's give it a go.
Pop it off of stack, and actually there's
one thing I didn't mention is we can think
of our whole file of code, cuz remember,
functions is this little mini programs.
Our whole file of code
is the main program.
We can think of it as being
wrapped up in a big old function.
What do me call it, [SOUND] Charles?
Do you know what we call the,
that's not very fair of me to just
throw out a question out like that.
We call the overall kind of function that
is our overall code that we're running,
we call that, do you know Virginia?
Did Charles?
>> David: Global.
>> Will Sentance: Global,
global, yeah exactly,
think of our overall code as global,
and we're running that.
And so as soon as I run multiply by
2 with input of 3, I add it on top.
When I finish running it, I take it off,
and I go back out to global.
I start running multiply by 2 input of 10,
add it on top,
finish running it,
take it off, back to global.
If I were to run another function inside
of multiply by 2 with the input of 3,
I'd have multiply by 2 input of 3, and
I'd have another function on top of it.
Another function is out of that one,
another on top of it, all the way up
the call stack if I were to recursively
call a function inside a function,
inside a function,
until I ran out of space on the stack.
And I'd have what's known as?
>> David: Stack overflow.
>> Will Sentance: Stack overflow,
exactly, I run out of space.
Okay, there we go, those are the founding
principles of JavaScript.
They only took us half an hour,
no problem.